[DOCS-622] Create dedicated prometheus guide for each context. (#6810)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/guide/prometheus-host-collection.md

---
title: Prometheus and OpenMetrics metrics collection from a host
kind: documentation
further_reading:
    - link: 'logs/log_collection'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Collect your logs'
    - link: '/infrastructure/process'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Collect your processes'
    - link: 'tracing'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Collect your traces'
    - link: developers/prometheus
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Write your own custom Prometheus Check'
---

Collect your exposed Prometheus and OpenMetrics metrics from your application running on your hosts using the Datadog Agent, and the [Datadog-OpenMetrics][1] or [Datadog-Prometheus][2] integrations.

## Overview

Starting with version 6.5.0, the Agent includes [OpenMetrics][3] and [Prometheus][4] checks capable of scraping Prometheus endpoints. Datadog recommends using the OpenMetrics check since it is more efficient and fully supports Prometheus text format. For more advanced usage of the `OpenMetricsCheck` interface, including writing a custom check, see the [Developer Tools][5] section. Use the Prometheus check only when the metrics endpoint does not support a text format.

> This page explains the basic usage of these checks, enabling you to import all your prometheus exposed metrics within Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains the basic usage of these checks, enabling you to import all your Prometheus exposed metrics within Datadog.
```

**Note**: All parameters but `send_distribution_buckets` and `send_distribution_counts_as_monotonic` are supported by both OpenMetrics check and Prometheus check.

## Getting started

### Simple metric collection

> Here is a simple getting started to collect metrics exposed by your Prometheus:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with collecting metrics exposed by Prometheus, follow these steps:
```

> 1. Follow the [Prometheus Getting Started][11] documentation to start a local version of prometheus that monitors itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the [Prometheus Getting Started][11] documentation to start a local version of Prometheus that monitors itself.
```

2. [Install the Datadog Agent for your platform][6].

3. Edit the `openmetrics.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][8] with the following content:

    ```yaml
    init_config:

    instances:
        - prometheus_url: http://localhost:9090/metrics
          namespace: 'documentation_example'
          metrics:
              - promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total: prometheus.handler.requests.total
    ```

> 4. [Restart the Agent][12]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. [Restart the Agent][12].
```
